# Online-Retail-Customer-Segmentation

Colab Notebook link - https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1DZH4RC1xM0WIyK2om260MgySzZs0Jk10?usp=sharing

## Summary
Online Retail Customer Segmentation using an unsupervised machine learning clustering analysis where our task is to identify major customer segments on a transnational data set which contains all the transactions occurring between 01/12/2010 and 09/12/2011 for a UK-based and registered non-store online retail. The company mainly sells unique all-occasion gifts. Many customers of the company are wholesalers. 25% of the customer ID's are missing and 36% of the orders were cancelled. Quantity with negative values mean the order was cancelled and negative value in unit price with description "Adjust bad debt" tells us that this is an adjustment for a customer with insufficient funds or an allowance for a customer who never paid for the order. Customers buy an average quantity of about 10 per product, an average number of orders per customer is 3. Average number of items per order is 20.5 and average number of items per customer is 50. United Kingdom has significantly more customers than the other countries. UK has the most sales revenue Percentage of customers from the UK:  93.88 %. And Year-End sales are high and most of the sales quantity happened in between September and December month (Christmas festive sales).
In the Data cleaning and Feature engineering part we had dropped all unwanted features, NAN values, cancelled orders and products whose having zero unit price and created features for the RFM model which are Recency, frequency, monetary value is a marketing analysis tool used to identify a company's or an organization's best customers by using certain measures, In addition, we also calculated /in addition to another two measures Unique items and First purchase. Then using evaluation metrics on various clustering models we found 3 promising models which are Spectral clustering with 3 clusters is the best model using davies bouldin score and silhouette score evaluation metric and Kmeans with 6 and 7 clusters using calinski harabasz.

## Conclusion
In Spectral clustering with 3 clusters, Cluster0 alone 99.65 of the whole population accounting for 96.78 of the total sales amount! Clearly, this result is not meaningful.
So finally we found an optimal solution by visualizing and examining cluster summary, cluster stats and the scatter plot, it is interesting to see that each cluster indeed contains a group of consumers that have certain distinct and intrinsic features for K mean clustering with 6 clusters. Clusters are evaluated using silhouette, calinski harabasz and davies bouldin score for K-Means clustering algorithm with a different number of clusters and best number of clusters for KMeans using Elbow plots of different evaluation metrics used at different K values indicate that K=6 can yield a good solution.

## Challenges
Few steps in the whole data mining process that are very crucial and the most time-consuming: data preparation, model interpretation and evaluation.
